Welcome back everyone.
In this series of lectures we're going to focus on two things.
One is how to perform a classification task with tensor flow.
The second is also focusing on how to identify and deal with overfishing through early stopping callback
techniques as well as adding in dropout layers early stopping is something we can do if cares to automatically
stop training based on a lost condition on the validation data that we pass in during the model that
fit.
Call dropout layers are layers that can be added to turn off neurons during training to prevent overfishing.
Basically what we do is each drop layer will drop or turn off a user defined percentage of neuron units
in the previous layer.
Every batch.
So that means certain neurons don't have their weights or biases affected during a batch.
Instead they're just turned off.
OK so let's see how this all works by heading over to Jupiter notebook.
All right here I am at a Jupiter notebook.
I've gone ahead and imported pandas num pi map polyp and sea born and the data set.
We're going to be working with here is basically a bunch of measurements of tumors and then a classification
of whether they're malignant or benign.
And let's go ahead and load up this file.
We're gonna say PD read CSP and then under data we're going to load up the file and it is called cancer
classification so you can tab autocomplete that from the data folder and a quick note underneath our
aliens folder.
If you go to the carer's classification notebook and open it up you shouldn't be able to scroll through
this and read the entire description of the dataset.
It contains 30 numeric predictive attributes and then one extra class and it's a relatively small dataset
about five hundred and sixty nine instances.
So we'll come back here and let's go out and do a little bit of exploratory data analysis and then later
on we'll move on to focusing on early stopping callbacks as well as adding in those dropout layers so
something I would always recommend doing is just doing quick info call and this will lie to see if you
have any null values right away.
And if you scroll through this you'll notice are all five hundred sixty nine.
So none of them are NOLs which is good for us.
And then we can also perform a described call in order to begin exploring the statistical distribution
of the various features.
And I always like to transpose this just so it's a little easier to read with the index being the features
themselves.
All right.
So lots of information here we can explore.
Let's go ahead and do a little bit of exploratory data analysis through visualization for classification
tasks.
It's always a good idea to do a count plot of your actual label to see the number of instances per label
and see if it's a well balanced problem or not.
So the label column is called benign underscore zero underscore underscore M A L underscore one.
So basically just indicates that benign is zero and then malignant is one.
So here's the actual feature or excuse me label and then our data frame is def we'll go ahead and run
that and this looks to be a relatively well balance so we definitely have more cases of malignant tumor
is in this particular dataset.
But the difference is not extreme here then what else we can do is check out the correlation between
the features themselves.
So we can say the F correlation and this will actually produce a correlation here.
And sometimes what's nice to do is to actually just view this in respect to the label we're trying to
predict which again is whether it's malignant or benign.
So we can pass that in and that just gives us this right here and in that case we can then say sort
values and then we can see what is highly positively correlated as well as what's highly negatively
correlated and sometimes it's easier to actually plot this out and we can do this by simply calling
plot with kind as equal to a bar plot.
You could also do this with seaborne if you wanted to.
And notice this very last one right here is the actual label itself which is perfectly correlated at
1.
So let's just go ahead and drop that one.
So we'll go ahead and say sort values and after this we'll do the following we'll say grab everything
but the last one and that will essentially drop that label column.
So it looks like we have very correlated values but very highly negatively correlated so we should be
able to get pretty strong predictions from this dataset just based off this analysis here.
And we can also do a similar analysis of correlation between the actual variables themselves by calling
a CNS heat map on this correlation and this returns a heat map.
However this shows you the correlation with every feature compared to every other feature.
And if it's a little small you can always expand on this by saying Pulte figure fig size and then choose
a larger size twelve by twelve or whatever you see fit.
So that's something you can explore as well.
You can also change the color mappings to explore that further.
But right now we'll go ahead and put exploratory data analysis the so we can get to our train test split
and scaling the data.
And then in part two we'll focus on creating the model and dealing with overfishing that could occur.
So first let's do our train test split our X features we're going to say the F drop the benign column.
In fact they should still have that copy pasted there and then that's along axes equals one and we'll
just grab those values so that it's an umpire.
And then y it's going to be equal to the F in this case.
It's just that column and we'll grab those values.
So then we will say from S K learn model selection and this should seem very familiar to you by now
the train test split import that called train test split.
Go ahead and expand the documentation string so you can scroll down here and then grab this example
let's copy and paste that here and then what we're going to do is we'll simply change the test size
to something a little smaller since we have that many points.
We'll go ahead and change it to just 25 percent of our data and to keep things consistent.
I'll set my random state to 1 0 1.
Of course that's just an arbitrary choice.
But if you want to get the same split I do go ahead and choose the same value.
We run that.
We get our split and then finally let's scale the data.
We'll do this by using the pre processing from psychic learn and then we will import min max scalar
create an instance of the scalar and we will fit transform our training data.
So we'll go and say X. train is equal to fit transform X train and we will do the same for our test
data.
So scalar transform x test recall we don't want to actually fit the test data.
We only want to fit to our training data to prevent data leakage.
All right.
So we did a little bit exploratory data analysis.
There's definitely a lot more you can do.
So feel free to create scatter plots distribution plots et cetera whatever you're interested in and
then more importantly we went ahead and did a train test split as well as the pre processing to scale
the data.
So coming up next we're going to focus on creating the model and then showing you how to prevent overfishing
and how to make sure you don't actually overrun on the training data set and then end up having a poor
fit on your test data set.
So we'll cover all that in part two.
I'll see you there.